Version specification in main text of `tutorials/pyproject-toml.md` (#191)
pyOpenSci/python-package-guide: tutorials/pyproject-toml.md

[build-system] # <- this is a table
requires = ["hatchling"] # this is an array (or list) of requirements
```

dependencies are added in an array (similar to a Python list) structure.

```toml
dependencies = ["numpy", "requests", "pandas", "pydantic"]
```

> Dependencies can, and usually should come with a **version specifier.**

Reviewer: I think this would be more clear if we at the top here say something like

* when declaring package dependencies, you should consider the range of versions of the dependency that you are using. For instance, your package may use numpy but it may not support users who still have numpy 0.3 installed. so you may want uses to always have atleast version 1.0 or greater.... 

Then something like - there are x types of dependency xxx that you can consider using 

1. **Unspecified bounds:** when you don't specify any number.. that says that you package can work with ANY version ....
2. Lower bounds: description
3. Upper bounds: description
4. pinned: definition 

that will then setup the sections below so the user is more clear about each "type" or approach that they could take. 

the alternative would be to list them at the top and then have a small h3 or h4 section for each. i think either could work well but it's important to define them first.

Author: sure sure! can absolutely do that, i was trying to keep it brief bc didn't want to add a whole second guide in here, but if you think this would be better i can make that change in a sec (after i read rest of comments)

Author: oh wait this is already in here, looks like this: 
<img width="833" alt="Screenshot 2024-03-19 at 2 51 24 PM" src="https://github.com/pyOpenSci/python-package-guide/assets/12961499/73a619d2-017f-4fa0-800d-562632aa8a9c">

Reviewer: oh gosh.. ok great. my apologies i missed that!!

A plain dependency says that your package can work with any version of that dependent package.

> Code changes over time, bugs are fixed, APIs change, and so it's good to be clear about which version of the dependency you wrote your code to be compatible with - a package you wrote this year probably isn't compatible with numpy v0.0.1!

Author: i sorta like the style of this sentence :) how strong is this suggestion? i think it's more than 'when created' but which versions can run it, and i have actually found the example of "can your code run on numpy 0.0.1" helpful when trying to convince existing projects that a `*` version specifier is inappropriate - in answer to the question "why not be maximally permissive" the answer is basically "being too permissive makes it break!"

> Code changes over time, bugs are fixed, APIs change, and so it's good to be clear about which version of the dependency you wrote your code to be compatible with - a package you wrote this year probably isn't compatible with numpy v0.0.1!

Reviewer 2: All good to leave as is.

[Learn more about various ways to specify ranges of package versions here.](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/version-specifiers/#id5)

The most common version specifier is a **lower bound,** allowing any version higher than the specified version.

> Ideally you should set this to the lowest version that is still compatible with your package, but in practice for new packages this is often set at the version that was current at the time the package was written.

Author: reasoning for this change? the point here was to give readers some sense of how one weighs which version to pick as leah points to above - 'current version' is an OK default, but why might someone choose a different value? it could confuse ppl if they want to go hunting for low versions, but I will regularly do this when i'm writing something new, go two minor versions/9 months back and check if my tests pass and use that, since setting current version or greater can actually be a pain for the early life of a package

> Ideally you should set this to the lowest version that is still compatible with your package, but in practice for new packages this is often set at the version that was current at the time the package was written.

Reviewer 2: That's a fair point @sneakers-the-rat. I tend to view the past as past but your approach is reasonable.

license = {file = 'LICENSE'}
requires-python = ">=3.10"

> dependencies = ["numpy>=1.0", "requests==10.1", "pandas", "pydantic>=1.7,<2"]

Reviewer: @sneakers-the-rat one thing i think users will get stuck on here is how do they know what minimum version of a tool a package supports? i'm not sure how we'd explain that. it's not trivial because normally if you are new to software dev you are just installing tools and you won't do any pinning or lower or upper bound entries at all (unless you use poetry which has defaults). So how would i know (as a scientist who is a beginner to creating a package) that my tool can't support numpy < 1.0

Reviewer: so this comment is really about adding some direction to a scientist on how to figure this out. rather than telling them to use a lower bounds with out any guidance as to how to do it.

Reviewer 2: I typically set to the lower bound to the version that I create the package with. Described in another comment.

Author: Yeah I initially had that in here but took it out bc i didn't want to be too verbose, but if this is a sticking point then yes :). poetry at least does this automatically with `poetry add`, same with `pdm add`. i'm sort of surprised that hatch doesn't seem to have a cli command to add a dependency.

Reviewer 2: @sneakers-the-rat I think if we choose the greater than current numpy version and make the comment: "Greater than or equal to the current version" that might clarify for @lwasser's concern.

```

:::{admonition} Pin dependencies with caution
"Pinning" dependencies refers to specifying a specific version of a dependency like this:

`numpy == 1.0`.

> Unless you are building an application, you want to be cautious about pinning dependencies to precise versions.

Reviewer 2: If you are building a library package that other developers will depend upon, you must be cautious before pinning to a precise dependency version. Applications, such as production websites, will often pin their dependencies since other packages will not depend on their project.

Author: make this as a suggestion and i'll add it so you get attribution <3

license = {file = 'LICENSE'}
requires-python = ">=3.10"

dependencies = ["numpy>=1.0", "requests==10.1", "pandas", "pydantic>=1.7,<2"]
```

:::{admonition} Pin dependencies with caution
"Pinning" a dependency means setting it to a specific version, like this:

`numpy == 1.0`.

> Unless you are building an application, you want to be cautious about pinning dependencies to precise versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are building a library package that other developers will depend upon, you must be cautious before pinning to a precise dependency version. Applications, such as production websites, will often pin their dependencies since other packages will not depend on their project.
```

license = {file = 'LICENSE'}
requires-python = ">=3.10"

> dependencies = ["numpy>=1.0", "requests==10.1", "pandas", "pydantic>=1.7,<2"]

Reviewer: yes so here - i know pydantic well at this point. below 2.0 makes sense. but why did you pick 1.7 as the lower bound? and why doesn't pandas have any bounds?

Author: just random numbers to illustrate the version syntax :) - showing you can do exact pins, lower bounds, ranges, or unspecified - let me add some annotations to make that explicit

Reviewer: awesome. yes that clarification would be great. for instance the pydantic <2 makes a ton of sense
